Update OpenAPI security guidelines.md (#57)
camaraproject/Commonalities: documentation/API-design-guidelines.md

}
```

### 11.6 Security definition

> Finally, this part describes the security is applied to the API. 

Reviewer: This section describes and aligns the security specific definitions within the API specification, such as scopes and the security schemes.

Author: Updated

> Finally, this part describes the security is applied to the API. 

Author: ```suggestion
This section describes and aligns the security specific definitions within the API specification, such as scopes and the security schemes.
```

  - For CRUD operations on a resource in paths, it will be one of:
    - `create`: For operations creating the resource, typically `POST`.
    - `read`: For operations accessing to details of the resource, typically `GET`.
    - `update`: For operations modifying the resource, typically `PUT` or `PATCH`.
    - `delete`: For operations removing the resource, typically `DELETE`.
    - `write` : For operations creating or modifying the resource, when differentiation between `create` and `update` is not needed.

* Eventually we may need to add an additional level to the scope, such as `api-name:[resource:]action[:detail]`, to deal with cases when only a set of parameters/information has to be allowed to be returned. Guidelines should be enhanced when those cases happen.

##### Examples

| API | path | method | scope |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| location-verification | /verify | POST | `location-verification:verify` |
| qod | /sessions | POST | `qod:sessions:create`, or<br>`qod:sessions:write` |
| qod | /qos-profiles | GET | `qod:qos-profiles:read` |

> #### 11.6.2 Use of openIdConnect for `securitySchemes`

Reviewer 2: `openIdConnect` is not the only possibility for security schemes. `clientCredentials` flow is also allowed under certain circumstances. A template for the client credentials flow should also be provided in this document for completeness.

Reviewer 3: @jlurien @eric-murray I understood that this proposal does not prevent to use `clientCredentials`;
With this proposal we extract the authorization information from the yaml. The authorization are described in another json that can be found here: https://example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration (as described here: https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/openid-connect-discovery/)

Did I miss something?

Reviewer 2: So the decision is to use `openIdConnect` as the only possible security scheme?

I guess at least that simplifies the API definition at the cost of not knowing what authentication schemes are supported. The design guidelines should at least contain a note to this effect, because using `openIdConnect` as a way of specifying client credentials is to be used is not particularly intuitive.

Reviewer 2: One more question - would the API definitions that currently call the security scheme of type `openIdConnect` "`three-legged`" be expected to change that to "`openId`"? So rather than have two schemes of type `openIdConnect` called "`three-legged`" and "`two-legged`", we have just one called "`openId`" that covers both cases?

Author: This issue was opened prior to the later discussion in I&CM WG about this topic, and the debate is going on there, so in the end we should align Commonalities guidelines with the decision taken there. We have to review how to consolidate relevant information with details in one single place.

Which auth flow is allowed to be used for certain API will depend on many considerations that may change from country to country, that may depend on the business segment, on the considerations about which Personal Information is affected, etc. The idea is of this proposal is to make CAMARA API specifications the more "agnostic" as possible in relation to these concepts.

We are somehow limited here by the semantics in OAS. The ultimate requirement to me is to standardize the scopes which protect the different operations, but for that OAS requires to link the scopes definition in `security` to some entry in the `components/securitySchemes`  section by means of a key. The key itself is free for us to decide. We may choose "openId" or whatever other term, such as something even more generic, such as "scopes", etc. But the entry in securityScheme must be one of the allowed: oauth2, openIdConnect, etc. For sure we may have several entries in security and duplicate the scopes per entry, but using openIdConnect with .well-known discovery URL, which may allow client_credentials if necessary, was to me the most simple option.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I agree that a single `openId` scheme which says "look in `./well-known/openid-configuration` for details" is the most flexible, but is just moving the problem of standardising security schemes across implementations elsewhere.

I would guess we will end up defining a template `openid-configuration` file for each API definition (or multiple files, depending on use case or country) showing what is allowed. Or maybe such details will only be in the documentation.

Author: We may agree also in adding some section in info.description for "# Authentication and authorization", explaining how security and securitySchemes should be interpreted.

Author: This section is duplicating the work in I&CM, so I will reference the work there

> Generally, OpenID Connect is the protocol to be used for securitization. Each API spec will define the following entry in `securitySchemes`, as shown in [CAMARA-AuthN-AuthZ-Concept.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/tree/main/documentation/CAMARA-AuthN-AuthZ-Concept.md) document:

Reviewer 2: I think "Generally" is doing too much work here. At least a link to the Identity & Consent documentation should be given, if not explicitly listing the conditions under which OIDC must be used.

Author: This part will be removed and referenced to the document in I&CM

```
components:
  securitySchemes:
    openId:
      type: openIdConnect
      openIdConnectUrl: https://example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration
```

The value for `openIdConnectUrl` in the CAMARA spec is an example, that must be substituted by the specific discovery endpoint for OIDC protocol of the API provider, when the API is exposed in one of its environments.

#### 11.6.3 Use of `security` property

> Generally, each operation will be protected by a scope and it will include a `security` property with a single element in the array:

Reviewer 2: I don't think "Generally" is required here. The rule should be that every operation should be protected by a scope. If there are exceptions, they should be explicitly listed.

An example for client credentials should also be given.

Reviewer 3: @eric-murray I will formulate this way "As soon as user data are manipulated by an operation, the operation must be protected by a scope".

Reviewer 2: So the proposal is to use `openIdConnect` but with no scope when user data is not involved? Something like:
```
  security:
  - openid: []
```

I would clarify that and formulate it the other way around:
"The operation must be protected by a scope, unless no user data will be manipulated by the operation in which case no scope need be specified for the `openIdConnect` security scheme."

An example of specifying no scope might also be useful.

Author: I agree that "Generally" must be avoid and give precise guidelines. In OAS we can define a security entry at API root level, which applies to all operations which do not overwrite security. In this sense, it will be better to add what @eric-murray  suggests to a generic root section. Or we may agree that all operations must be protected by some scope, which I think is a good practice and what is commonly happening already in all of our specs.

Reviewer 3: @jlurien @eric-murray I'm fine with Eric proposal: "_The operation must be protected by a scope, unless no user data will be manipulated by the operation in which case no scope need be specified for the openIdConnect security scheme._" 

If we provide for example API of UE density on a geo zone, we haven't user data here and so we did not need a scope - correct?

Reviewer 2: @bigludo7
My concern with allowing "no scope" is that we might think there is no user data involved, but later find that privacy / legal teams say there is. Always having a scope for each operation, even if we think granting this scope will be automatic, allows for additional checks to be added later. I don't see that this complicates things particularly, but I&C sub-project would know better than me.

As an example, the use case you mention (UE density) is coming via GSMA, and is one Vodafone have been looking at. The view of our privacy teams was that this data was "analytics", and hence any subscribers included in the count would have to have opted-in for that.

Now, of course, in this case it would be ridiculous to check which subscribers had consented and calculate the UE density dynamically on that basis for every request for UE density information. The data would just be updated periodically taking this consent into account, but could then be shared freely. However, I give this example to show that it is not always obvious whether an operation is "doing something" with user data that requires consent.

Author: Agree also, I think it is good practice to add scopes to all operations. As legal and regulatory considerations are complex and difficult to predict, it is safer to avoid making assumptions while defining the APIs

Reviewer 4: @eric-murray , always having a scope sounds good with an option to grant it automatically sounds like a good way forward.

I suggest to avoid "user data are manipulated by an operation" - this allows different interpretations. One can believe that "manipulation" means "changing". then reading user's location is not a "manipulation".

Author: This section is duplicating the work in I&CM, so I will reference the work there

```
paths:
  {path}:
    {method}:
      ...
      security:
        - openId:
            - {scope}
```

> The key is arbitrary in OAS, but convention in CAMARA is to name it `openId`. This key must be same defined in the `components.securitySchemes` section.

Reviewer: Needs to align with the review of https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/62
